docs(throttle transform): Add highlight for new `throttle` transform (#10040)
vectordotdev/vector: website/content/en/highlights/2021-11-12-event-trottle-transform.md

---
date: "2021-11-16"

> title: "Event trottle transform released"

Author: ```suggestion
title: "Event `throttle` transform released"
```

> description: "A guide that addresses the new event throttle transform"

Author: ```suggestion
description: "A guide to using the new `throttle` transform"
```

authors: ["barieom"]

> pr_numbers: []

Reviewer: https://github.com/vectordotdev/vector/pull/9378

```suggestion
pr_numbers: [9378]
```

release: "0.18.0"
hide_on_release_notes: false
badges:
  type: new feature
---

> # A new `trottle` transform 

Author: ```suggestion
# A new `throttle` transform 
```

We've released a new `throttle` transform that provides a user the ability to throttle the throughput of specific event streams.

Large spikes in data volume can frequently overwhelm a service, which is especially common in log data. Previously, users lacked the necessary tooling to control throughput, such as setting quota for users and user groups utilizing Vector, which not only can cause spike in costs, but also negatively impact downstream services due to the increased load. 

> The [`throttle`][] transform enables you to rate limit specific subsets of your event stream to limit load on downstream services or enforce quotas on users. You can utilize the `throttle` transform to enforce rate limits on number of events and exclude events based on a [VRL condition][] to avoid dropping critical logs. 

Reviewer: @binarylogic noted that he wasn't sure about the quota language - it was pulled in from it's use in the underlying governor library used in the transform, but if we'd prefer to retain it for separate usage in vector we should rewrite the docs and the highlight to match that expectation.

To ensure that each bucket's throughput averages out to the `threshold` per `window`, rate limiting spreads load across the configured `window`. The rate limiter will allow up to threshold number of events through and drop any further events for that particular bucket when the rate limiter is at capacity. 

A rate limiter is created with a maximum number of cells equal to the `threshold`, with cells replenishing at a rate of `window` divided by `threshold`. To paint a better example, a `window` of 60 with a `threshold` of 10 replenishes a cell every 6 seconds and allows a burst of up to 10 events. 

> For example,

Reviewer: As mentioned this example is pretty trivial (and is exactly what's on the documentation page). I'm fine with this as I wrote it originally :D but if we have the time @binarylogic's suggestion of graphing the effects of the throttle transform might be nice.

> Given this event...
> ```

Author: ```suggestion
Given this event...

```json
```

[{"log":{"host":"host-1.hostname.com","message":"First message","timestamp":"2020-10-07T12:33:21.223543Z"}},{"log":{"host":"host-1.hostname.com","message":"Second message","timestamp":"2020-10-07T12:33:21.223543Z"}}]
```

...and this configuration...
```toml
[transforms.my_transform_id]
type = "throttle"
inputs = [ "my-source-or-transform-id" ]
threshold = 1
window = 60
```

> ...this Vector event is produced:
> ```

Author: ```suggestion
...this Vector event is produced:

```json
```

[{"log":{"host":"host-1.hostname.com","message":"First message","timestamp":"2020-10-07T12:33:21.223543Z"}}]
```

> If you any feedback, let us know on our [Discord chat][] or [Twitter][].

Reviewer 2: I don't believe this way of doing links is valid Markdown. In this particular case it should be:

```markdown
[Discord chat] or [Twitter].
```

> ['throttle']: /docs/reference/configuration/transforms/throttle/

Reviewer 2: This is not valid Markdown. In the main text it needs to be

```markdown
[`throttle`][throttle]
```

and at the bottom of the page it needs to be

```
[throttle]: /docs/reference/configuration/transforms/throttle
```

> ['throttle']:https://master.vector.dev/docs/reference/configuration/transforms/throttle/
> [VRL condition]:https://vector.dev/docs/reference/vrl/#example-filtering-events

Author: ```suggestion
['throttle']: /docs/reference/configuration/transforms/throttle/
[VRL condition]:/docs/reference/vrl/#example-filtering-events
```

All internal links should be relative so that they work on all deployments of the website (e.g. `vector.dev`, `master.vector.dev`, and the branch preview deploys).

We've released a new `throttle` transform that provides a user the ability to throttle the throughput of specific event streams.

> Large spikes in data volume can frequently overwhelm a service, which is especially common in log data. Previously, users lacked the necessary tooling to control throughput, such as setting a limit for users and user groups utilizing Vector, which not only can cause spike in costs, but also negatively impact downstream services due to the increased load. 

Reviewer: @barieom @binarylogic I suspect we should change the component docs as well to not use quota if we're reserving that for another purpose in the Vector space

Author: 👍 I'm fine with using the term quota. I think it does apply here. Otherwise, agreed, we should update both places.
